
























































                        Batting Around: Who's the team to beat in the American League as 2024 MLB spring training opens?
        


The Orioles, Astros, Rangers and Yankees are among the favorites for the 2024 pennant

























                                            By
                                        


Mike Axisa









                    
    Feb 15, 2024
                            

                    at
                            
    3:07 pm ET



                •
            


2 min read
            






































































 






















Getty Images








Throughout the offseason, the CBS Sports MLB                  experts      will     bring    you a                            weekly     Batting         Around        roundtable      breaking                                                                         down                     pretty                            much                 anything.      The                         latest                      news, a                                                                                                 historical                                        question,                                                   thoughts                                    about                              the                             future       of                                                              baseball,               all                      sorts             of                                            stuff. 
Last week we discussed Matt Chapman's future
. This week we're going to debate the best team in the so-called Junior Circuit.
Who's the best team in the American League?
R.J. Anderson:
 It's a tough question with three or four defensible  answers. At this point, though, I'll go with the 
Astros
. I have fewer  questions about them than I do with the 
Rangers
 (rotation/health) or the  
Yankees
 (rotation). Additionally, and I believe this is the final year  this will be true, I'm inclined to say I would take the Astros roster  over the 
Orioles
 -- 
who revealed Thursday that Kyle Bradish will start the year on the injured list
 -- if we're just talking about the 2024 campaign. 
Dayn Perry:
 I probably would've leaned Astros before the Orioles  swung a trade for ace 
Corbin Burnes
. Now I'm inclined to say Baltimore.  The Burnes addition is precisely what they needed given the suspect  nature of the rotation. Pair that targeted strike with what figures to  be one of the strongest offenses in baseball -- with even more help on  the way from within the farm system -- and I'm saying the Orioles once  again top the loop. 










Matt Snyder:
 I had the Astros at three and Orioles at four in 
power rankings
, so it  shows how neck-and-neck I have those two teams right now. It's probably  toss up territory. The Astros had a question with how thin the bullpen  looked, but signing 
Josh Hader
 helps alleviate some of those concerns. I  don't think 
Hunter Brown
 or 
Cristian Javier
 can possibly be worse this  year in the rotation, so it'll look like one of the league's best. The  offense remains incredibly scary, too. As noted, though, I think the  Orioles are right there. 
And if you wanted me to  pick someone from the outside of these two that could challenge -- and  everything would have to break right -- I'd say the Yankees. 










Mike Axisa:
 I lean Orioles over Astros because I think their roster has more upside given all their high-end young players. 
Justin Verlander's shoulder is already barking
 and the middle of the bullpen seems iffy. The Corbin Burnes trade pushed Baltimore over the Astros for me, though I still think they're close overall. The Rangers are the defending champs and deserve a mention here, though their current rotation is sketchy. They strike me as a team that could look much more dangerous come postseason time than they look right now. Give me the Orioles over the Astros slightly, with the Rangers, 
Rays
, and Yankees in the next tier.



































































